# Development History

30 mins | So the past 30 minutes have been used for me to follow along the tutorial and setup the configs for the development environment. Now gonna make this my initial commit and start working on the app itself. Ome thing I encountered which is different from following the tutorial was the fact that the tutorial seems to be quite out of date and uses `.eslintrc` and `.eslintignore` instead of the current `eslint.config.js` so I had to form my own config for it through the reference of the old files and the current eslint docs.

1 hour | Hmm I've done quite a lot this past hour or so. I've setup four major screens for the app - Songs discovery, Artists, Favorites, and Playlists. I've also setup a bottom menu navigation bar to switch between the screens. I've also made some minor improvements and changes too!

1 hour 10 mins | Umm so new day it is and I haven't really made as much new features but rather was completing the bottom tab menu like fixing it's appearance, and adding icons, etc. I've also deviated from the tutorial by the fact that I'm using lucide for icons instead of fontawesome which is used in the video. I am also currently in the midst of fixing the headers and I just realized that this tutorial is for an iOS app!! So the header code won't work for android and now I'm trying to create a custom component myself for the header or just find a third party component to replace the header with.

1 hr 15 mins | Uhhhhh so I am literally so cooked... So this entire time I was trying to find a way to create a good looking header for my app speciallly for android, and oh boy has it been such a pain bruh :( I had to look around everywhere because there aren't enough customisation options offered by expo and react native for headers in android and most properties are for iOS. I first tried using `react-native-sticky-parallax-header` library for the header but ran into tons of dependency conflicts and issues so had to drop it. Then I tried making my own custom header component but failed in that too (you can see the code for it in `src/components/header.tsx`). Later I tried to use React-native-paper component library for header and UI instead but then I saw that I would get really limited UI customization freedom that way so I just stuck with the basic header implementation provided by Expo in the end lol.

1 hr 30 mins | So I've done a lot of stuff rn. Nothing too much to say but I've made the tracks list in the song tab with proper rendering of images through uris. It took a while as I had to create custom components for the tracklist and tracklistitem and setup new styles for them.

1 hr 45 mins | Uh so I have quite a lot of stuff I wanna rant about but I'll leave it by just saying that I JUST HATE GRADLE... So my gradle cache was corrupt and I wasn't able to build my app for android since three hours and was stuck up on fixing it wasting my time... Anyways so leaving that stuff aside in the past one and forty minutes I've added a working search bar aswell as making minor fixes for android specially like for BlurView using expo-blur (it still won't work for some reason lmao). So anyways this is it rn and I'll be back soon with another feature as its time for lunch :3

1 hr | Was trying to figure out how I can load songs on my device locally and show them in the app. I've made a `useLocalTracks.ts` hook to load local tracks on device and fallback to the dummy library.json if the logic doesnt work or permission issues occur. This took so long because this wasn't in the tutorial and I had to reasearch and do everything myself using `expo-music-library`...

1-3 days | ok so a lot of stuff I wanna say rn.First of all I would like to say that I've made a lot of changes / stuff in the past four to five days as the situation was quite cooking me bruh :( So what happened is as I said before that I'm on the Expo 55 sdk and it follows the new architecture, I was having a lot of trouble finding a working library and in the end had to use AI (chatgpt) to set up a basic immplementation of audio playback using `expo-audio` instead. Also after that I ran into another issue where my PC's storage was full. Like - Literally. F. U. L. L. And so I had to reinstall arch on my secondary drive, copy all the files, and set up the incompatible stuff together here and finally it all works!! Anyways the point is that I've now added a basic track player implementation not present in the tutorial.

1 hr | ok so things are going well again now!! I've made a minimized bottom track player component for when ur navigating the app while playing a song. I did steal quite a bit of code from my `useAudioPlayer.tsx` file since the logic is mostly the same and hence it was quite fast with around 20-30% of copy-pasting codes.

55 mins | AYOOOO gng I've finally made local songs indexing work!!!!!!!! (P.S. special thanks to @ascpixl at `#remixed-help` on Slack for giving me this idea, u really made my day!!) So I've added two new libraries: `expo-file-system` and `@react-native-async-storage/async-storage` which are pretty obvious to their name as in what I've done is updated the code in my useLocalTracks.ts to make it such that we use expo-file-system to make use of android's filesystem for scanning songs and then we use async-storage so the scanned folders are remembered across app restarts! Then I extracted the fileUri of the songs filtered by their file extensions and saved them to the TrackList! So now the local audio could be played. Now theres this minor issue where the metadata of the song is not read and displayed correctly like the title artist name and cover art so I'll work on that now!

1 hr 40 mins | um so okay! I would've commited this much earlier if not for these weird ahh bugs I was having. Firstly, I've finally made fetching Metadata from local songs work! So now the album cover, artist and song name appear correctly in the tracklistitem!!! I used @missingcore/audio-metadata to extract the ID2 and ID3 metadata from the songs. Now the reason it took so long to commit... So uh actually I made a metro.config.cjs for some minor onfiguration regarding audio-metadata library which somehow got deleted and I was stuck trying to trace what was causing the bug due to which the metadata stopped working again bruh :( But now I've re-added it so its all good now!!

3 hr 30 mins | uhh so I've been unable to work on this since a few weeks because of my ongoing exams and I finally had the chance to work on this today so I've been working on finishing this since this morining. In the last three to four hours or so I've made the artists and favorites screen working and now I'm thinking of ditching the playlists screen as it's too much for me as of now. Anyways I've made two Provider scripts in `src/context` directory to provide all the necessary functions for toggling favorites and fetching artist names from the songs a bit more efficiently. Now i'm just gonna shift my ugly looking buttons for choosing folders inside the settings screen and be done with the project.

45 mins | uhh so I've make the settings screen by replacing the content inside the already present dummy playlists screen code... I've copied the two buttons to add and remove song folders over to the settings page instead of the library and now I think I'm done..? Well, technically not as I need to create a splash screen and logo but that's for another time. Well, it has been a fun time working on this project and I sure hope that I would never have to touch react-native ever again... I'm better off using flutter instead. So goodbye!! :3
